docs/index.md, before:

# Welcome to NEAT

[![release](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/cognitedata/neat/release_pypi.yaml?style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/cognitedata/neat/actions/workflows/release_pypi.yaml)
[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.com/projects/cognite-neat/badge/?version=latest&style=for-the-badge)](https://cognite-neat.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/?badge=latest)
[![Github](https://shields.io/badge/github-cognite/neat-green?logo=github&style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/cognitedata/neat)
[![PyPI](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/cognite-neat?style=for-the-badge)](https://pypi.org/project/cognite-neat/)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/pypi/dm/cognite-neat?style=for-the-badge)](https://pypistats.org/packages/cognite-neat)
[![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/cognite/neat?style=for-the-badge)](https://hub.docker.com/r/cognite/neat)
[![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/cognitedata/neat?style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/cognitedata/neat/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg?style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/ambv/black)
[![Ruff](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/astral-sh/ruff/main/assets/badge/v2.json&style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff)
[![mypy](https://img.shields.io/badge/mypy-checked-000000.svg?style=for-the-badge&color=blue)](http://mypy-lang.org)

NEAT is [an open source](https://github.com/cognitedata/neat/blob/main/LICENSE), domain expert centric and developer friendly solution for rapid:

- semantic data modeling
- creation, transformation and enrichment of knowledge graphs
- and ingestion of the models and graphs to [Cognite Data Fusion](https://www.cognite.com/en/product/cognite_data_fusion_industrial_dataops_platform)

![NEAT High Level](./figs/neat-high-level.png)

Accordingly, NEAT supports two flows:

- [Data Modeling Flow](./data-modeling-flow.md)
- [Graph ETL Flow](./graph-etl-flow.md)

NEAT is using open and globally recognized standards maintained by the [World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)](https://www.w3.org/RDF/).

NEAT represents a fundamental tool for creation of standardized, machine-actionable, linked and contextualized (meta)data.

# NEAT is great for...

- Onboarding of domain experts to the semantic data modeling and knowledge graphs
- Semantic data model development and deployment to Cognite Data Fusion
- Conversion of (meta)data to knowledge graphs
- Simplification of large and complex domain data models and knowledge graphs
- Enrichment of knowledge graphs with additional information
- Ingestion of knowledge graphs to CDF
- Staging and playground area for data models and knowledge graphs

# NEAT is not meant as...

- Long-term solution for storage of data models and knowledge graphs
- Reasoning over semantic data models and knowledge graphs
- Visual data modeling (see [Data Modeling using Spreadsheets](./rules.md))

> NEAT is an acronym derived from k**N**owl**Ed**ge gr**A**ph **T**ransformer hallucinated by GenAI.

Commit message:

Rorg DOCS as prep for Neat 118 update description of rules for domain expert information arch (#333)
Clean up docs
Reorg docs
Use User Guide to hold small notebooks for each neat feature
Use of Tutorial for large end-to-end process such as data modeling lifecycel
Added placeholders for almost all notebooks that will display atomic features of neat

docs/index.md, after:

# Welcome to NEAT

!!! warning annotate "Work in Progress"
    This page is work in progress and will be updated continuously until version 1.0.0 is released.



[![release](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/cognitedata/neat/release_pypi.yaml?style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/cognitedata/neat/actions/workflows/release_pypi.yaml)
[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.com/projects/cognite-neat/badge/?version=latest&style=for-the-badge)](https://cognite-neat.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/?badge=latest)
[![Github](https://shields.io/badge/github-cognite/neat-green?logo=github&style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/cognitedata/neat)
[![PyPI](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/cognite-neat?style=for-the-badge)](https://pypi.org/project/cognite-neat/)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/pypi/dm/cognite-neat?style=for-the-badge)](https://pypistats.org/packages/cognite-neat)
[![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/cognite/neat?style=for-the-badge)](https://hub.docker.com/r/cognite/neat)
[![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/cognitedata/neat?style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/cognitedata/neat/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg?style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/ambv/black)
[![Ruff](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/astral-sh/ruff/main/assets/badge/v2.json&style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff)
[![mypy](https://img.shields.io/badge/mypy-checked-000000.svg?style=for-the-badge&color=blue)](http://mypy-lang.org)

NEAT is [an open source](https://github.com/cognitedata/neat/blob/main/LICENSE), domain expert centric and developer friendly solution for rapid:

- semantic data modeling
- creation, transformation and enrichment of knowledge graphs
- and ingestion of the models and graphs to solutions such as [Cognite Data Fusion](https://www.cognite.com/en/product/cognite_data_fusion_industrial_dataops_platform)

![NEAT High Level](./artifacts/figs/neat-high-level.png)


NEAT is using open and globally recognized standards maintained by the [World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)](https://www.w3.org/RDF/).
NEAT represents an essential tool for creation of standardized, machine-actionable, linked and semantic (meta)data.

> NEAT is an acronym derived from k**N**owl**Ed**ge gr**A**ph **T**ransformer hallucinated by GenAI.
